If you start out with C++ or any other language,
you get a fixed set of types.
You have integers, you have pointers,
you have floating-point numbers,
and that's about it.
That's very impoverished.
If I'm in sort of an engineering or mathematical mood,
I would like to get complex numbers,
vectors with mathematical operations, matrices,
band diagonal matrices, triangular matrices, that works.
But you can't build all of that into the language,
so you have to give people the ability to build their own.
That's what C ++'s classes are doing,
and let me just point out that that was going in a mathematical direction.
Now if you'd gone to, say,
telephony, which I spent some time doing,
you may want those things but you want things that are very unusual
like dial buffers and things like that,
so you go in a different direction.
So each application area can build its own little world of types,
core classes that helps them.
That's how you get something that's manageable at a higher level than the hardware.
By the way, I got the class idea from the language, Simula,
where they first appeared,
people sometimes ask me why is it called class and not a type.
The answer is that Kristen Nygaard and Ole-Johan Dahl who
did Simula were not computer scientists,
though they had a mathematical background,
so they called them classes because they knew what a class was.